---
description: random notes on things i've been (unsuccessfully) working on
title: notes 20200928
---

### _notes_

Things either just don't work out
or are not very interesting.

#### _otel_ metrics

I don't know what the people writing OpenTelemetry use,
but it's certainly not prometheus + grafana.
Anyway, their runtime and host metrics use an additive counter
which looks like an ever increasing graph in grafana.
Adding `rate()` and losing fidelty in the view just doesn't seem right.

#### _otel_ collector

I know it's beta, but still. `v0.10.0` can't scrape prometheus metrics
because it doesn't recognize `up` and `v0.11.0` can't scrape kubernetes resources
because something broke the parser for `kubernetes_sd_configs`.

#### _traefik_ observability

traefik apparently uses some shared observability middleware
because it logs the `/ping` and `/metrics` requests every time,
cluttering up the logs with no way to filter them out.

What's worse is it does the same for tracing, cluttering up jaeger
with a bunch of `forward ping@internal/ping@internal` traces
(also the prometheus variant).
It for some reason doesn't appear to respond to remote sampling configs.
I was hoing to use the otel collector to filter it but that's broken in its own way.

#### _grpc_

gRPC doesn't actually try to make a connection on `Dial`, instead deferring that until
a call is actually made.
Maybe I need to import the health and/or reflection things server side
and make the client do an explicit check.
I was hoping `Dial` would fail and I can just set the client to `nil`...
