---
description: hindsight is 20/20, so what do i see in who i am
title: identity v2020
---
### _Who_ am i?

The series of _experiences_
that have shaped this ever changing collection of atoms.

#### _What_ experiences?

Mostly a lot of _moving_ around,
resulting in my current world view.
I'm also:

- not particularly attached to any one place
- **kind of** minimalist
- always looking somewhat tired or depressed

##### travel

I travel to get _away_,
from people I've seen too much of,
from places I find stale,
from work (whatever form that takes).

I travel to look for _inspiration_,
clichéd, but still true.
Leading from the stale point before,
sometimes seeing a different way of doing things,
or being reminded of something you're forgotten,
is enough join the scattered stars of thoughts into constellations.

I travel to stay _grounded_,
in reality, in life.
I know I like my little bubble very much,
but there's a whole world out there,
and the bubble isn't completely isolated from the effects.
I look to see _people_
going about their lives,
mindful of the fact that
**most** of them are fully formed humans,
with a wide range of experiences as well.
Occasionally I contemplate _human existence_,
and what makes people content with their lives.

#### _What's_ in my mind?

##### me

I'm here,
more or less.

Like most _(?)_ people
there are different personalities
as purer versions of each trait
that merge together to be the me you see.

##### someone else

How to describe this?
The _hallucinations_ from **A Beautiful Mind**,
or _Six_ from **Battlestart Galactica**.

It's someone in my mind,
a distinct personality.
They can read my mind,
or at least have a deep understanding of it,
maybe even deeper than i would admit to having of my own mind.
I can't read theirs.
Our interactions might are mostly
them giving advice,
assertive or not.
I don't talk much,
real life or in my head.